
# Speaker's bio (1-3 sentences)

# Descriptions/metadata

- Coauthors: Daniel?
- Talk title: An R package toolkit to simplify and automate an open, collaborative scientific workflow
- Section:
    - Reproducible research
    - Teaching?

# Abstract

Many fields of science are far behind adopting open scientific practices (e.g.
sharing code), especially in the biomedical fields. Given the increasing calls
and demands for science to be more open (open data, open source), researchers in
the future will need to adopt these practices in order to publish papers and
obtain funding. However, presently one of the biggest challenges for many
researchers/scientists is that it is not easy to practice and adhere to these
practices. While there are a few packages and workflows currently available,
such as [`ProjectTemplate`](http://projecttemplate.net/) or
[`makeProject`](https://cran.r-project.org/package=makeProject), these toolkits
tend to focus more on the template creation side of projects or rely on
extensive documentation rather than automation. This toolkit (presently only the
[`prodigenr` package](https://github.com/lwjohnst86/prodigenr)) aims to simplify
and automate many of these open science tasks. At present, the `prodigenr`
package automates the creation of an open reproducible research project, with
templates for manuscripts, posters, and slides currently available. The ultimate
goal is to create a toolkit similar in ideology to the `devtools` package, but
aimed at researchers and scientists using (or wanting to use) open scientific
practices. This toolkit is also being developed through the Mozilla 
[Open Project Leader Training](https://tinyurl.com/y8632w22). The aim of
presenting this toolkit at eRum is to get feedback and suggestions from the
community, particularly surrounding practices in reproducibility and open
science, and how to best target biomedical researchers.

R packages: prodigenr
